README.md, before:

# Concept

Goal: attract and direct human activity to push forward science as fast as possible.

This is first draft MVP of the application for crowdsourced "Map Of Science".
Its intent is to show concept of the map and gather feedback to build appropriate application.

The goal for the project is to 
 - give clear and holistic view of all knowledge and problems that we have with the best explanations available
 - direct people into groups and companies for practical actions to solve this problems

We post jobs and show their connection with question that will help to solve most interesting and hard question of humanity.

We want to create search platform where one can select its skills and will find companies from our list that
are searching for candidates with such skills.

# Rules
First draft of map is based on concept of [Zettelkasten](https://writingcooperative.com/zettelkasten-how-one-german-scholar-was-so-freakishly-productive-997e4e0ca125)
and [Hierarchical Network](https://fibery.io/blog/the-knowledge-organization/).

Let's postulate that everything in the world is the phenomena that 
1) is produced by one or several other phenomenas
2) has some theory that describes its internal mechanics/structure (or at least hypothesis that should be verified by further experiments)

For example quantum fields produces particles, particles produce atoms, atoms produces molecules, molecules produces cells, cell produces animals,
animals produce social hierarchies, which produce artifacts and so on.

So basically we have a graph of phenomenas that is connected by which produces which (if some phenomena influence other, we also call it "produce").

However, number of phenomenas produced may be enormous, so to ease exploration of map we want to organize them in hierarchical groups.
For example Human produces Culture that consists from Science, Languages, Arts, Philosophy, Countries and so on
And Science is just a name for group of other groups - Physics, Medicine, Mathematics, Economics and so on.

In contrast to causal connections between phenomenas, organization in hierarchical groups is subjective and can have multiple equally useful variants.

Also, it is important that very often we do not know yet exactly what really produces phenomena and its internal mechanics.
We know maybe some correlations and connected facts and have some hypothesis or theories about it.
And we know that this hypothesis should be further verified by experiments.

Also, some phenomenas involve a complex concepts that has its own non-trivial structure.
(For example a cell is such a complex phenomena with its own structure).

With these assumptions in mind let's define structure of map

## Phenomena-produces-phenomena hierarchical structure
General rule of the map: every node follows from the other nodes (premise nodes) by means of induction, deduction or abduction.
Also, two nodes A and B are linked in case one should understand model of A to understand B (we can say that A uses concept B).

Every node represents an experimental fact (E) or model/concept (M).

One node contains others if its contents describe it descendants (abstract them on a more high level).

Description of node should be as vivid and simple as possible. 
One should be able to understand contents of node if she understood premise nodes with no need for any additional research.
Time to read and understand contents of one node ideally should be no more than 15 min.

## Node contents
Node content consists from
1) users description of the topic
2) connections to other nodes (see explanation above)
3) list of links to resources (books, videos, blog articles etc) that describes topic in details, every resource can be marked as ["to read", "already read"] and have personal rating (rate 1/2/3/4/5 stars)
4) list of links to crowdfunding campaigns that push this topic forward
5) list of links to the jobs that will help to make progress on the topic

## Example
https://scimap.org/

# How to build such project?

There are 3 phases

1) (we are currently here) MVP of map and its content - just enough to assess that such map can be constructed in a way that makes sense

2) If step 1) will be successful we want to find people that think this project is interesting to them and they are ready to add facts, 
theories and formulate viable hypothesis to the problem.
Value for people to invest in project - is to to share their knowledge in a graphically clear manner, to put together puzzle and attract enthusiasts to work with.
We are looking to create community and rules that will deliver easily explorable information and connections (in a form of a map)
with emphasize on formulation of viable hypothesis and steps to be taken to test them.

3) If step 2) will be successful we need to find investments to scale project.

# Collaborative editing in MVP
Technically hard part of project is collaborative editing.
For MVP we want most simple still workable solution.

Right now we will try Alternative #0 (see below) but maybe some other solution will come up later.

## Alternative #0 (optimistic update) - any new user has tag 'map_editor' and can edit anything in realtime
These updates will be sent to watchers of node
(users with tags 'map_editor' and 'experienced' who subscribed to updates of node content).
If sny experienced user noticed intentional abuse of node content he can revoke tag 'map_editor' from
inexperienced one after public discuss of this case in a sci-map chat.
Node content can be easily restored from history by experienced user who banned inexperienced.

Nodes can be moved and deleted only by experienced users.
Move and removal of node also can be reverted from history of map change.

User can be granted tag 'experienced' by any other already experienced user.

## Alternative #1 (pessimistic update) - any registered user can edit anything in realtime with pre-approve for several first modifications
Every new user (NU) can do everything, but to see his modifications on scimap.org
they should be approved by any experienced user (EU) for the first several times.
After that EU can give NU tag "experienced".
With this tag NU becomes EU and all his modifications goes to scimap.org instantly.

Any user can report that some content is inappropriate.
This report will go to EU other than author of last version of reported content.
After check EU can drop tag "experienced" from the author of inappropriate content
(or even ban him for some time).

There can be rare event that after approve new content cannot be merged into scimap automatically because edited content
already changed. If this is the case EU should change new content manually.

## Alternative #3 (version control) - using github
More sophisticated solution can be push map to github in json format and make version control like code developers do.
In this solution every contributor has only its own version of map and button "download your version of map" (the last one will download json file).
After editing is done contributor creates new branch from master in github, overwrite it with downloaded json,
manually merge last master, manually resolve conflicts (if any), open merge request is merged to master by someone with appropriate rights.

This github solution gives more control on map versioning but require contributors to learn new skills - how to work in github and merge json manually.

# Personalization of map
Besides users that can edit anything we can allow for everyone registered user to personalize its map 
- add comments to nodes that visible ony to them and pin some nodes that are of the most interest only for them.
There is no collaborative editing for such users so this is simple in developing.

# Application setup for developers
```
yarn install
```

## Compiles and hot-reloads for development
```
yarn serve
```

## Compiles and minifies for production
```
yarn build
```

## Run your unit tests
```
yarn test:unit
```

## Run your end-to-end tests
```
yarn test:e2e
```

## Lints and fixes files
```
yarn lint
```

## Customize configuration
See [Configuration Reference](https://cli.vuejs.org/config/).

# Firebase commands
You can deploy security rules for realtime database and storage as well as function definitions with following command
## Deploy security rules
### Storage rules
Sits in file storage.rules
You can deploy it in production with
```shell
firebase deploy --only storage
```

### Storage rules
Sits in file database.rules.json
You can deploy it in production with
```shell
firebase deploy --only database
```
## Firebase function
### Install firebase-tools (once)
```shell
$ npm install -g firebase-tools
$ firebase logout
$ firebase login
```
### Choose emulators to run
```shell
firebase init emulators
```
### Run empty emulator
```shell
$ firebase emulators:start
```
### Save data from running emulator
```shell
firebase emulators:export functions/data
```
### Run emulator with exported data
```shell
firebase emulators:start --import=functions/data
```
### Deploy functions on production
Generate private key in firebase console as described here https://firebase.google.com/docs/admin/setup#initialize_the_sdk_in_non-google_environments
Move this file to /scripts/private-key.json
Then 
```shell
$ firebase deploy --only functions
```
### Look for logs in production
https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/query
https://console.firebase.google.com/project/sci-map-1982/functions/logs

### Run app on emulator
Set in src/api/api.ts
```shell
export VUE_APP_IS_EMULATOR=true; yarn serve
```

#### Emulate schedule function
Emulator do not support schedule
To imitate schedule locally you can run it in shell:
```shell
firebase functions:shell
>setInterval(() => cleanProcessedEventIDs(), 60000)
````

## Run app in docker
```shell script
docker build -t sci-map .
docker run -d -p 80:80 --rm --name sci-map sci-map
```

## Upload picture on cdn
```shell
gcloud storage cp ~/Downloads/wave1rope.png gs://sci-map-cdn/images/
```

## Deploy with gitlab
https://blog.logrocket.com/how-to-auto-deploy-a-vue-application-using-gitlab-ci-cd-on-ubuntu/
Don't forget to disable shared runners in your gitlab.com account (section Runners in https://gitlab.com/<username>/sci-map/-/settings/ci_cd)

### If deploy job fails with "no space left on device"
Just ssh to your host and do
```shell
docker system prune --all
```

## Deploy with github and firebase
https://firebase.google.com/docs/hosting/github-integration?hl=ru

# Alternative visualizations
Here is some other approaches to visualize the same structure (which is called "hierarchical network" or "hierarchical graph")
Bubbles
https://www.figma.com/proto/gdsTx92knJmXZjSUAmYeO7/scimap?node-id=2-753&starting-point-node-id=2%3A753&scaling=scale-down
Chord diagram
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/cms/asset/e8bfe23d-0499-4a11-a4a4-58647afc9d58/cgf13610-fig-0010-m.jpg
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:1400/format:webp/1*FBaB_aGUcWbfrLr1Ric5bQ.png

Commit message:

[SM-119] fixed realtime databse /trash rules to allow only insert (not update and delete) + refactored node removal

README.md, after:

# Concept

Goal: attract and direct human activity to push forward science as fast as possible.

This is first draft MVP of the application for crowdsourced "Map Of Science".
Its intent is to show concept of the map and gather feedback to build appropriate application.

The goal for the project is to 
 - give clear and holistic view of all knowledge and problems that we have with the best explanations available
 - direct people into groups and companies for practical actions to solve this problems

We post jobs and show their connection with question that will help to solve most interesting and hard question of humanity.

We want to create search platform where one can select its skills and will find companies from our list that
are searching for candidates with such skills.

# Rules
First draft of map is based on concept of [Zettelkasten](https://writingcooperative.com/zettelkasten-how-one-german-scholar-was-so-freakishly-productive-997e4e0ca125)
and [Hierarchical Network](https://fibery.io/blog/the-knowledge-organization/).

Let's postulate that everything in the world is the phenomena that 
1) is produced by one or several other phenomenas
2) has some theory that describes its internal mechanics/structure (or at least hypothesis that should be verified by further experiments)

For example quantum fields produces particles, particles produce atoms, atoms produces molecules, molecules produces cells, cell produces animals,
animals produce social hierarchies, which produce artifacts and so on.

So basically we have a graph of phenomenas that is connected by which produces which (if some phenomena influence other, we also call it "produce").

However, number of phenomenas produced may be enormous, so to ease exploration of map we want to organize them in hierarchical groups.
For example Human produces Culture that consists from Science, Languages, Arts, Philosophy, Countries and so on
And Science is just a name for group of other groups - Physics, Medicine, Mathematics, Economics and so on.

In contrast to causal connections between phenomenas, organization in hierarchical groups is subjective and can have multiple equally useful variants.

Also, it is important that very often we do not know yet exactly what really produces phenomena and its internal mechanics.
We know maybe some correlations and connected facts and have some hypothesis or theories about it.
And we know that this hypothesis should be further verified by experiments.

Also, some phenomenas involve a complex concepts that has its own non-trivial structure.
(For example a cell is such a complex phenomena with its own structure).

With these assumptions in mind let's define structure of map

## Phenomena-produces-phenomena hierarchical structure
General rule of the map: every node follows from the other nodes (premise nodes) by means of induction, deduction or abduction.
Also, two nodes A and B are linked in case one should understand model of A to understand B (we can say that A uses concept B).

Every node represents an experimental fact (E) or model/concept (M).

One node contains others if its contents describe it descendants (abstract them on a more high level).

Description of node should be as vivid and simple as possible. 
One should be able to understand contents of node if she understood premise nodes with no need for any additional research.
Time to read and understand contents of one node ideally should be no more than 15 min.

## Node contents
Node content consists from
1) users description of the topic
2) connections to other nodes (see explanation above)
3) list of links to resources (books, videos, blog articles etc) that describes topic in details, every resource can be marked as ["to read", "already read"] and have personal rating (rate 1/2/3/4/5 stars)
4) list of links to crowdfunding campaigns that push this topic forward
5) list of links to the jobs that will help to make progress on the topic

## Example
https://scimap.org/

# How to build such project?

There are 3 phases

1) (we are currently here) MVP of map and its content - just enough to assess that such map can be constructed in a way that makes sense

2) If step 1) will be successful we want to find people that think this project is interesting to them and they are ready to add facts, 
theories and formulate viable hypothesis to the problem.
Value for people to invest in project - is to to share their knowledge in a graphically clear manner, to put together puzzle and attract enthusiasts to work with.
We are looking to create community and rules that will deliver easily explorable information and connections (in a form of a map)
with emphasize on formulation of viable hypothesis and steps to be taken to test them.

3) If step 2) will be successful we need to find investments to scale project.

# Collaborative editing in MVP
Technically hard part of project is collaborative editing.
For MVP we want most simple still workable solution.

Right now we will try Alternative #0 (see below) but maybe some other solution will come up later.

## Alternative #0 (optimistic update) - any new user has tag 'map_editor' and can edit anything in realtime
These updates will be sent to watchers of node
(users with tags 'map_editor' and 'experienced' who subscribed to updates of node content).
If sny experienced user noticed intentional abuse of node content he can revoke tag 'map_editor' from
inexperienced one after public discuss of this case in a sci-map chat.
Node content can be easily restored from history by experienced user who banned inexperienced.

Nodes can be moved and deleted only by experienced users.
Move and removal of node also can be reverted from history of map change.

User can be granted tag 'experienced' by any other already experienced user.

## Alternative #1 (pessimistic update) - any registered user can edit anything in realtime with pre-approve for several first modifications
Every new user (NU) can do everything, but to see his modifications on scimap.org
they should be approved by any experienced user (EU) for the first several times.
After that EU can give NU tag "experienced".
With this tag NU becomes EU and all his modifications goes to scimap.org instantly.

Any user can report that some content is inappropriate.
This report will go to EU other than author of last version of reported content.
After check EU can drop tag "experienced" from the author of inappropriate content
(or even ban him for some time).

There can be rare event that after approve new content cannot be merged into scimap automatically because edited content
already changed. If this is the case EU should change new content manually.

## Alternative #3 (version control) - using github
More sophisticated solution can be push map to github in json format and make version control like code developers do.
In this solution every contributor has only its own version of map and button "download your version of map" (the last one will download json file).
After editing is done contributor creates new branch from master in github, overwrite it with downloaded json,
manually merge last master, manually resolve conflicts (if any), open merge request is merged to master by someone with appropriate rights.

This github solution gives more control on map versioning but require contributors to learn new skills - how to work in github and merge json manually.

# Personalization of map
Besides users that can edit anything we can allow for everyone registered user to personalize its map 
- add comments to nodes that visible ony to them and pin some nodes that are of the most interest only for them.
There is no collaborative editing for such users so this is simple in developing.

# Application setup for developers
```
yarn install
```

## Compiles and hot-reloads for development
```
yarn serve
```

## Compiles and minifies for production
```
yarn build
```

## Run your unit tests
```
yarn test:unit
```

## Run your end-to-end tests
```
yarn test:e2e
```

## Lints and fixes files
```
yarn lint
```

## Customize configuration
See [Configuration Reference](https://cli.vuejs.org/config/).

# Firebase commands
You can deploy security rules for realtime database and storage as well as function definitions with following command
## Deploy security rules
### Storage rules
Sits in file storage.rules
You can deploy it in production with
```shell
firebase deploy --only storage
```

### Realtime database rules
Sits in file database.rules.json
You can deploy it in production with
```shell
firebase deploy --only database
```

### Firestore rules
Sits in file firestore.rules
You can deploy it in production with
```shell
firebase deploy --only firestore
```
### Firestore indexes
Sits in file firestore.indexes.json
You sync it from production with
```shell
firebase firestore:indexes > firestore.indexes.json
```

## Firebase function
Sits in ./function index.js (and included in it files)
For now we use them mainly to log in "firestore" changes that was made in "realtime database"
### Production logs
[Google Cloud UI](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/query;query=resource.type%3D%22cloud_function%22;storageScope=storage,projects%2Fsci-map-1982%2Flocations%2Fglobal%2Fbuckets%2F_Default%2Fviews%2F_Default,projects%2Fsci-map-1982%2Flocations%2Fglobal%2Fbuckets%2F_Required%2Fviews%2F_AllLogs,projects%2Fsci-map-1982%2Flocations%2Fglobal%2Fbuckets%2F_Default%2Fviews%2F_AllLogs;cursorTimestamp=2023-12-10T06:55:34.484210558Z;duration=PT1H?project=sci-map-1982)
or 
```shell
firebase functions:log
```

### Install firebase-tools (once)
```shell
$ npm install -g firebase-tools
$ firebase logout
$ firebase login
```
### Choose emulators to run
```shell
firebase init emulators
```
### Run empty emulator
```shell
$ firebase emulators:start
```
### Save data from running emulator
```shell
firebase emulators:export functions/data
```
### Run emulator with exported data
```shell
firebase emulators:start --import=functions/data
```
### Deploy functions on production
Generate private key in firebase console as described here https://firebase.google.com/docs/admin/setup#initialize_the_sdk_in_non-google_environments
Move this file to /scripts/private-key.json
Then 
```shell
$ firebase deploy --only functions
```
### Look for logs in production
https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/query
https://console.firebase.google.com/project/sci-map-1982/functions/logs

### Run app on emulator
Set in src/api/api.ts
```shell
export VUE_APP_IS_EMULATOR=true; yarn serve
```

#### Emulate schedule function
Emulator do not support schedule
To imitate schedule locally you can run it in shell:
```shell
firebase functions:shell
>setInterval(() => cleanProcessedEventIDs(), 60000)
````

## Run app in docker
```shell script
docker build -t sci-map .
docker run -d -p 80:80 --rm --name sci-map sci-map
```

## Upload picture on cdn
```shell
gcloud storage cp ~/Downloads/wave1rope.png gs://sci-map-cdn/images/
```

## Deploy with gitlab
https://blog.logrocket.com/how-to-auto-deploy-a-vue-application-using-gitlab-ci-cd-on-ubuntu/
Don't forget to disable shared runners in your gitlab.com account (section Runners in https://gitlab.com/<username>/sci-map/-/settings/ci_cd)

### If deploy job fails with "no space left on device"
Just ssh to your host and do
```shell
docker system prune --all
```

## Deploy with github and firebase
https://firebase.google.com/docs/hosting/github-integration?hl=ru

# Alternative visualizations
Here is some other approaches to visualize the same structure (which is called "hierarchical network" or "hierarchical graph")
Bubbles
https://www.figma.com/proto/gdsTx92knJmXZjSUAmYeO7/scimap?node-id=2-753&starting-point-node-id=2%3A753&scaling=scale-down
Chord diagram
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/cms/asset/e8bfe23d-0499-4a11-a4a4-58647afc9d58/cgf13610-fig-0010-m.jpg
https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:1400/format:webp/1*FBaB_aGUcWbfrLr1Ric5bQ.png
